yeah it's a beautiful summer day and you
believe the beach is the place to go
the sun is so bright and the water is so
refreshing
but hey what was that shadow in the
water
ah it just touched your leg you spot a
beast the size of your first volkswagen
beetle
it's not even a fish more like a dragon
you decide to get out of the water
immediately
someone's got to warn everyone else guys
get out
there's something huge in the water as
you pack your stuff from the beach
you try to remember everything you know
about gigantic fish
you hope they can't jump out of the
water and decide to stay and find out
what it is
oh someone must have called the coast
guard they never seemed so confused when
you saw them on tv
speaking of tv there could be like five
camera crews arriving
did someone say earthquake what could a
fish possibly have to do with that
now they're getting the entire beach
evacuated
well at least you've parked your car not
too far away from there
you turn on the radio in your car a
giant aura fish has been spotted close
to the ocean surface today
the entire town is getting evacuated now
because
the fish of tremors lies deep in the sea
and only gets this high up to warn
people of
upcoming natural disasters oh boy
you decide you don't want to be near
when that happens so you start the car
and drive away
soon though being far away enough you
stop and google this fish
so what makes oarfish leave their
comfortable homes half a mile under the
sea
some researchers believe they can feel
the electromagnetic changes happening
when underwater earthquakes shake the
bottom of the ocean
plus oarfish the longest bony fish in
the world
are really bad swimmers and can't
withstand strong currents
that's probably why they drift to the
shore before tsunamis
an ancient japanese legend has it that
giant catfish named
namazu lives somewhere under the islands
when that monster is feeling moody
it moves its tail and the world starts
shaking with earthquakes
oh wow was that lightning coming from
the ground
you've never seen anything like that
before and while you're watching in
amazement
your phone buzzes a notification it's
all over the news
rare earthquake lights have just been
spotted in coastal area
they don't come out before every
earthquake and take different colors and
shapes
from short blue sparks to huge forks of
light
they look as though some interstellar
visitor decided to see how things are
down on earth they can look like ball
lightning that stays up from tens of
seconds to minutes
scientists say all of that is caused by
certain rocks
like basalts and gabros with strong
electrical powers that an earthquake
activates
it's like someone switches on a huge
battery in the earth's crust
quake lights have been spotted all
across the world over the centuries
from italy to san francisco and japan
powerful earthquakes follow them
somewhere it took just minutes
in other places it was days hold on was
that a deer
nearly flipped over the car whoa there's
a whole herd of them
and all those low-flying birds they seem
so lost and confused
must be something in the magnetic fields
that's messing up the flight
you remember from your biology class
that animals and birds can sense
earthquakes days in advance
are those toads they're hopping uphill
from their pond
must be too risky to stay there at the
moment and hey
cows are all laying down facing in the
same direction
they do it for their own safety not to
fall down and break their legs during
the quake
scientists still can't explain what
sensors help them know
when it's time to leave or fall on the
ground humans could have made
really good use of those anyway it's
enough reasons to leave asap
but a traffic jam is exactly where you
don't want to be at this moment
looks like everyone is trying to flee to
safety what's that annoying sound
a siren oh no it's like a dozen kids in
different cars around
are all crying at the same time it looks
like they can also
feel the earthquake coming scientists
believe it must have to do with anxiety
that ultra low frequency em waves are
producing
well you decide to drive around the
traffic jam down the coastal highway
wow the water is stepping back way too
fast
you can even see the coral reefs
uncovered
you think paying a fine is a fair price
for your life and accelerate up the hill
the backing tide is a surefire sign of a
tsunami
it moves at the speed of a jet plane
after an underwater earthquake
the water draws back for a stronger tide
to come in
and there it is a wall of water is
coming right in the direction of the
beach
or so it seems luckily the huge wave
somehow dwindles getting closer and it's
not as horrible when it finally reaches
the shore
you side with relief but notice another
creepy thing
what are those choppy waters over there
they're forming into
channels and taking seaweed and debris
it seems like there's a gap in the wave
line
gears in your head turn feverishly and
you recall
these are rip currents these sinister
things can take down even an experienced
swimmer
well you seem to be safe now so you pull
over to take a breather
and what a view here you just have to
take a picture of that green sky
oh no not again that unusual
tint is a mix of red coming from the
setting sun
and blue light of storm clouds it means
a really tall
thunder cloud and a tornado or a severe
thunderstorm is approaching
and what's that smell in the air when a
thunderstorm is on the way
the most distinct and pungent smell your
nose picks up
is ozone an electric charge of lightning
sets it free from higher altitudes that
other more pleasant smell of rain is
petrichor
rainwater wakes up molecules on plants
trees
and concrete and asphalt if you're in
the city and their aroma spreads
all over the place now it seems like
that smell has moved from the air
right into your mouth yeah looks like a
lightning storm is definitely on the way
all those positive ions in the air that
lightning bolts set free
get mixed with ozone and your saliva
giving you that bitter metallic taste
ouch your hair is standing on in and
what's that
buzz it's coming from your watch too
much metal in it
when that happens invisible positive
charges are going through your body
if you can't find shelter immediately at
least stay away from trees and other
tall isolated objects
and you gotta keep driving to safety
again
whoa what was that you can't see
anything who's throwing golf balls from
the sky
hail like this is often born in
thunderstorms
raindrops are carried into super cold
and high areas of the atmosphere and
freeze
to make it possible the winds have to be
really strong
so it often also means a tornado is
approaching
and all those cute gold wing warblers
you heard when they suddenly take off
and unexpectedly change their route
it could mean a severe tornado is coming
scientists believe warblers can hear low
frequency infrasound the storms produce
oh could this day possibly get any worse
oh thanks bees just what you like they
seem so excited about something
when they feel like a storm is on the
way they start working
even harder and faster to collect more
nectar before it hits them
and once they're done they'll always
come back to the hive 10 to 15 minutes
before heavy rain even when there are no
obvious signs of it coming
their secret is super sensitive hairs on
the back
that can pick up electrostatic buildups
from storm clouds
yay you're almost home so good to be
back and
are those gorillas in your driveway look
like they've taken over the place
is that your couch on the roof and that
t-rex
shaped cloud doesn't look good either
red rain
snowflakes the size of an elephant at
least the treehouse is still there
no the tornado is taking it apart and
what's that drilling sound
ah that's your alarm clock that was like
the weirdest dream ever
at least it's sunny outside in real life
looks like the beach is the place to go